My name is Satvik Puti. I am an entrepreneur and an endurance athlete. 
I am an Indian expat living in Paris. I believe in following my curiosity and pushing my limits.
I am currently building Just Build It! - a community of curious people in Paris who build ambitious projects together.

My Professional Experience: 

Experience

Just Build It
Founder
May 2025 - Present (2 months)
Paris, Île-de-France, France
A community based out of Paris where curious people build ambitious projects
together.
Page 1 of 5
Opella
Global Insights Manager
September 2024 - Present (10 months)
Paris, Île-de-France, France
Main responsibilities
• Promote a consumer-focused approach within the team, liaising with internal
departments to better understand and respond to consumer needs.
• Coordinating research activities with multiple departments like marketing and
digital to ensure alignment with strategic goals and efficient resource use.
• Manage insights for digital-first strategies and support the integration of these
insights
across the consumer experience spectrum.
• Synthesize data from diverse sources to develop insights that foster
competitive growth and strategic decisions.
• Develop agile methodologies and contribute to global consumer insight
efforts,
supporting cross-functional team dynamics and rapid project execution.
Utopia
Founding Member
September 2024 - Present (10 months)
Paris, Île-de-France, France
In charge of Events.
My DMs are open if you are working (or know someone) in transformation
roles and tinkering with AI!
Substack
Blogger
March 2024 - Present (1 year 4 months)
Weekly Blog - 1% Better. I share learnings and advice from my life
experiences.
https://satvikputi.substack.com/
Kula Connect
Founding Member
May 2024 - May 2025 (1 year 1 month)
Paris, Île-de-France, France
Kula Connect is a community that aims to foster stronger connections between
India and Europe by uniting individuals and facilitating networking, exchange
Page 2 of 5
of ideas and collaboration. We grew the community to +1600 members and
organised 3 events across Paris, Milan and Amsterdam.
Danone
Global Innovation Brand Manager Volvic
January 2024 - June 2024 (6 months)
Paris, Île-de-France, France
• Managing the innovation pipeline, supporting countries, and finding synergies
among them
• Designed dashboards to identify key distribution channels and formats for
Volvic's new launches.
• Lead cross-functional teams to deliver multi-year innovation including
identifying consumer insights
• Analyzing market research, developing concept and launch materials and
benchmarking internal and external innovation trends
• Tracking innovation project management, portfolio analysis & performance
• Briefing agencies on execution & delivery of toolkits and coordinate with
suppliers & other stakeholders
• Handling internal financial management in collaboration with Finance Team.
L'Oréal
CeraVe Assistant Project Manager Europe Zone
July 2023 - December 2023 (6 months)
Paris, Île-de-France, France
• Developed monthly performance reports of CeraVe and its competitors by
creating dashboards and graphs in 10 countries and 7 different categories to
help drive business growth by more than 85%
• Served as a bridge between Cerave DMI at NYC and the product managers
of 16 countries to support brand campaigns and new product launches through
stock allocation and not limited to timely dispatch of samples/testers
• Lead AntiAgeing and Suncare market analysis project to identify growth
opportunities for the brand and communicate crucial recommendations to the
development team and European countries
• Aggregated prices of 100 SKUs in 4 categories and conveyed key
information to prepare pricing strategy for the brand’s new product launches
• Conducted Ad-Hoc competitor analysis for the DMI, Brand Managers and
General Managers to drive business growth and expansion through strategic
decisions
Cognizant
Page 3 of 5
2 years 4 months
Programmer Analyst
November 2020 - April 2022 (1 year 6 months)
Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India
• Engineered monitors using data analytics tools to limit consumption of AWS
resources by 57%
• Created documentation on different enterprise-level use cases to shorten the
problem-resolution period by up to 75%
• Trained new team members through knowledge transfer and enhanced the
team efficiency as measured by the KPIs by almost 50%
• Resolved high-priority issues of the client by cross-team coordination and
reduced the annual cost by approximately $55000
• Communicated weekly incident reports to the client using dashboards and
decreased recurring monthly incidents by 89%
Intern
January 2020 - November 2020 (11 months)
Bangalore
• Implemented steps to create basic cloud infrastructure, such as creating
databases and connecting
servers; reduced the problem resolution time by 1 hour per technical issue.
MSRIT DebSoc
Debate Coach
August 2017 - August 2020 (3 years 1 month)
Bengaluru, Karnataka, India
• Orchestrated monthly masterclasses for a group of 30 students on topics
such as argumentation, speech structure and framing rebuttals and the club
achieved a peak performance of more than 25 credentials than the prior year
• Established relationships with leading debaters and engaged them in our
championship event, resulting in a record-high registration of more than 250
participants from 40+ institutions
The Takshashila Institution
Policy Research Intern
July 2019 - August 2019 (2 months)
Bangalore
• Executed growth strategies on key network channels and obtained up to 10k
podcast listeners in 2 months
• Overhauled alumni engagement by almost 100% by simplifying and updating
the CRM database
Page 4 of 5
• Optimized recruitment process by using automation tools and minimized the
time duration by 82%
Aidapp
Marketing and Strategy Intern
July 2018 - August 2018 (2 months)
Bengaluru Area, India
• Conducted initial market research for the business and identified more than
20 potential clients
• Developed branding content and marketing strategy, and increased
engagement rate by 33% on different social media platforms
• Lead Editor for Aidapp’s blogpost and achieved more than 200% increase in
website visits in 2 months