10 Things I learnt from Tiny Experiments
Every founder should read this book. The binary model of success & failure does not work. One needs to adopt a new mindset.

I recently completed a first reading of a book that changed my mind on many things. Every founder should read this book. The binary model of success & failure does not work. It’s Tiny Experiments by Anne-Laure Le Cunff.

Here are some reflections:

I don’t believe in one true purpose anymore.
Humans are not machines and we evolve with time. We can have many purposes in our lives. During my bachelor days, I lost interest in computer science, which was my majors at the time. Some of my friends were focussed on getting better at it. For many years, I used to ask this question when I go to bed and it bothered me that I had many interests and envied those who were focussed on thing and excelled at it.

But after almost a decade, I am building a peer learning community in Paris for those interested in learning about AI by experimenting with it. Not because it is prestigious or for a safe career, but I am curious about what it can do for humanity.

Today, being a generalist and developing E-shaped skillset is essential. Being siloed does not help anymore because AI is already getting better at automating vertical tasks. Humans have an edge when they can connect the dots from seemingly unrelated things in their life. Since, I have many interests, and I learn quickly, it sets me apart. A unique combination of skillsets makes me unbeatable by AI or other humans.

What can be taught at school does not set you apart. You are replaceable.
Only things you learn through experience and can’t be taught at a school sets you apart.

Follow your curiosity.
People’s LinkedIn bio says they are enthusiastic about a field or technology, but there is no proof of their enthusiasm. Growing up in India and some similarities in Europe, there are some safe careers to pursue and the education system rewards conformity.

Therefore, many people subdue their authenticity and do what everyone else is doing. Following your curiosity could be a lonely and a scary experience. You do not know what to expect and your body and brain treat anything unknown as a defence mechanism to protect you from danger. Expect, you are not trying to fight a huge beast.

Don’t wait for permission. Start working on projects or solve problems that bother you. I have been doing that since last year and I met some amazing people with whom I launched projects and made amazing friends.

I have always been bothered by the lack of support for entrepreneurship in Paris. I do not mean the lack of VCs here. It’s a mindset that does not encourage people to experiment with their crazy ideas. People do not want to be called crazy and before even they begin, ideas are shot down. Naturally, many people are afraid of failure and criticism.

Nobody talks about the things that get them excited and everyone puts on a mask. It bothers me so much that I started a peer-learning community where you can work on your ideas, learn latest tools and pitch your ideas. And the result, for the first edition of the meet-up, we were 11 people who built 11 MVPs in 5 hours on a Saturday afternoon.

Goals are overrated. Start a PACT.
Goals add a lot of pressure on reaching an outcome. You are constantly worried if you are doing the right thing. Except, in entrepreneurship there is no right thing. Everyone is on a different path (otherwise, it is not entrepreneurship). You cannot know if you are doing the right thing unless you try. You learn things by trial & error.

Try committing to a PACT instead of a goal.

A PACT is purposeful, actionable, continuous and trackable.

I’ll [action] for [duration]. You commit to it and see what you learn at the end of the experiment. Much better than being fixated on the outcome or a goal. You are guaranteed insights & learnings.

Procrastination is a feature not a bug.
When you treat your inability to get something done, you conclude that it’s a moral failure and beat yourselves up. The guilt only adds more fire to the flame.

I lways have the trouble to get started on my newsletter or a post that I want to write. I think many things I want to write during the week. But, I sit down to write, I do not know what I should write about.

I tried the Triple Check to learn about the issue from the book.

Head— Is it appropriate?
Heart— Is it exciting?
Hand— Is it doable?

After doing the exercise, I realised that perfectionism cripples me.
Upon digging deeper, I learnt that the cause of seeking perfection is to avoid disappointing people. But, there will always be people who would have problem with something I do.

The most important thing is that I do not disappoint myself. That is super painful. If perfectionism takes over, then I cannot ship the newsletter on time. And great artists ship!

So, I figured a way out. I write my draft first, no barriers, I let the mind flow. I take a break and then come back to criticise the hell out of it.
That is the time I will make the edits. What you see now is after I have made the edits.

Learn in public. Build in public.
Following point 6, it is important to expose your ideas and work. Most people only want to be seen but do not want to exposed. They want to be seen in a certain way. However, you cannot control what people think of you. Even the great Michael Jordan received flak from media about that one time he spent with his dad at the casino.

Here’s why you should share your ideas & build in public—
- To get real feedback from people.
- To get more ideas from people.
- To evaluate if your ideas are actually worth working on.

Many great discoveries and innovations are not made my one person.
Steve Jobs did not alone build the iPhone.
Wright Brothers alone did not build the first aeroplane.
People usually attribute it to one single person because of the risk and the effort a person bears along the way.

I have been tinkering with AI to build a meal planning tool that helps people eat better and improve their health. I take criticism as a gift. In all the noise in social media, people cared to even take a look and share their thoughts is a big thing. For that, I am very grateful.

Learn to manage your energy.
Many people plow through hard things through sheer willpower. Yes, willpower is important. But, that is not all. Willpower is also figuring out how to best achieve what you set out to do, instead of abandoning the project altogether.

When starting something new, it will be hard because it is not part of the routine yet, like brushing your teeth.

By learning about my energy levels at different times of the day, I scheduled hard things such as revising the Finance lessons to validate my master’s degree at ESSEC, in the morning during the weekends. I keep all the distracting elements such as phone on DND and in a different room.
Peak energy levels can be different for different people, that’s something you have to note and experiment if you do not know already.

Focus on Generativity instead of Legacy.
Until now, I used to tell myself that I want to be remembered even after I am gone. I must build my legacy. But, that’s an end game where I won’t live to see my legacy. It is not enticing enough.

Instead, I am now focussing on contributing to the society now, by learning things I am interested in, by helping others and creating opportunities for others. A better game because I can get feedback from people if I am learning and building something of value for them.

Uncertainty in life is the only certain thing.
Many people fall apart because they can’t handle the uncertainty in life. I was one of them, uncertainty used to bother me and it affected my health.
However, I realised that I can control my actions and my response at any given situation. That is the most powerful thing ever. I can ask how I am feeling about a certain situation and then see if I can do something about it. If yes, then I get into action. Else, it is not worth bothering about it. Maybe, it will fix itself.

There are a lot of things I have learnt. I wrote everything that came to my mind and wrote this in a blitz. Inspiration is rare, and you gotta ride the wave as it lasts.