What I learn from biographies
No one was born a genius.

Before I started reading the biography of Steve Jobs, I was a fan boy. After finishing reading the book, I saw him as any other human being. A human being who persevered to create beautiful things that provided immense value. He was not a born genius. Neither was he perfect. I have been reading more biographies since then and I would like to share some of my observations.


Many people tell themselves that they are incapable of doing things.
That’s a very dangerous story to tell yourself. Most stop here and never question the status quo. Questioning the status quo is about why can’t you do things? What is stopping you from achieving what you want?

Questioning the status quo is very discomforting too. For example, I avoided jump ropes because I didn’t know how to do it. For many people, it is very easy and basic. Maybe, I avoided all this while to not look like a fool. Until, one day I was confronted by the bitter truth at a CrossFit group session. I blurted, “C’est impossible!”. I felt embarrassed for saying that to the coach. I asked myself the reason for avoiding jump ropes. It was the fear of falling flat on my face and injuring myself. In the past, I have severely injured myself when I fell flat on my face. So, it’s my body protecting me from danger. So, all I did is to confront my fear by letting myself trip over the rope. Once, I got over the fear, doing jump ropes became easier. I just have to keep practising regularly.

Knowing that it takes ordinary people to do great things is very liberating. You can just do things. People come up with seemingly valid reasons to not do things. It is human nature to avoid difficult things. For example, many successful entrepreneurs told Elon Musk that starting a rocket company is a crazy idea because he had zero expertise in building rockets. He was even ridiculed when he first tried to negotiate buying some rocket parts from some Russians. But, he figured out a way anyway. Many people who warned him about persuing this idea were also intelligent people. Intelligence is about wanting right things for you and knowing how to get them. But, most “intelligent” people have learnt to come up all the reasons of why they can’t get what they want.

Individuals like Steve Jobs, Elon Musk and others also dealt with problems that all other human beings do. They are not born with superior genes. In some cases, it is the contrary. Elon Musk was diagnosed with Asperger’s Syndrome, a kind of autism, which makes him not understand social cues. He dealt with a lot of childhood trauma, unlike Steve Jobs who had a stable and a loving family. If people with specific conditions, can build great companies, then what’s stopping me?

Most of the people did not have a work-life balance. Social media is full of hustle culture vs work-life balance. But, a common factor I observed among inventors and founders is that they did things that were aligned with their values. Therefore, it is indeed about alignment. At least, for me it is about alignment. I can work on things I care about on anyday of the week.

The reason we do not read about people who failed is because they didn’t fail enough. Ironically, the successful people are the ones who endured huge setbacks and had most amount of failure. Michael Jordan once said, “I've missed more than 9000 shots in my career. I've lost almost 300 games. 26 times, I've been trusted to take the game winning shot and missed. I've failed over and over and over again in my life. And that is why I succeed.”

I believe there is not much to learn from people who failed because the successful people probably failed more than anyone else.

If there is anything that fires me up more than anything is when people tell I can’t do something. Every rejection I get is way of telling me that “You can’t do it.”

I say, “Do what you can’t”.