Reflections after Adidas 10K
10 Things ranging from fear, ambition, growth and curiosity

I am happy for myself today, because I have, now officially entered the sub 50 club. I completed the race in 49 minutes. Hitting this milestone is an evidence that anything is possible for me as long as I stop making excuses and do the work. Here are some reflections after the race.


You can still get nervous despite being used to something.
A friend texted me that she was terrified about her first 10K today.
I can imagine how that feels. This morning before the race, I felt like I needed to take a shit right before the race. My friend finished the race in 38 minutes. And even he felt like he needed to take a shit before the race (He is a beast!). No matter how many times we may have faced a difficult challenge, it’s the body’s way of signalling that what we are about to achieve is going to be worth it. Because, we have consciously chosen to face our fears. Vulnerability is a sign of strength.

For some, peace comes from momentum. It fuels ambition. Having ambition is not sufficient to get what where you want. Momentum is necessary for ambition. It evolves your ambition. I hated running. I started running seriously since 2023. At first, running a 10K was the ambition. Then running a half-marathon. And then improving my 10K timing.

You can’t preach growth mindset. You demonstrate it. For people who continue to tolerate the suffering that is in the background, growth mindset is abstract. Something that some YouTuber talks about or they see on the reels. To truly understand, you have to stop tolerating the pain in the background and commit to doing things differently and accepting that you won’t be the same person anymore.

It is going to be hard to do things that you haven’t done before. Choose short term pain for long term happiness. When I started working out and changing my diet, it was hard at the beginning, but now I am used to it.

Many people tell themselves a sob story how things are stacked against them. I know this because I was that person in 2021. I felt stuck in a job, and I gained a lot of weight. I blamed my parents and circumstances for my misfortune. This victim mindset does not help. You are doing a disservice to yourself by telling that story.

Many choose the immediate comfort, because they are short-sighted. Visionaries are not visionaries because they see things. They manifest by choosing to do the hard things now.

There is no perfect way to do things. We always look for the best way to do things. If you want to run, don’t look for the best shoes, best training regime, best watch to track. You start with what you have. Perfection is disguised as fear and avoidance of doing what is needed. We all know the answer in the back of our minds. Just do it.

Many people tell themselves that they are “shit” and compare themselves to others who are “great”. Don’t compare your “worst” self to someone’s “best” self. You do not have the same circumstances as them. And you definitely don’t know how hard they worked for it. And you don’t know everything about them. There is too much noise on social media. I get trapped into this often when I see LinkedIn posts about founders raising X million dollars. Feeling like shit does not help. Doing the thing that’s required helps.

Nobody cares whether you are shit or the best. At least the people who you look upto don’t think you are shit. Now that’s a silverlining. All that matters is your trajectory and not your current position.

Celebrate your milestones. Be proud of it and share the joy with people who care. There have been moments when it was more a relief than celebrating. For a long time, it had been the case. In my previous 10K race a month ago, I was relieved that I had run faster than my previous 10K. There was no celebration. The problem with this attitude towards milestones is that you feel stuck in a hamster wheel, where your existence is valued by achieving milestones. It takes away the joy. Rather, a curiosity-first mindset that I learn from Anne-Laure Le Cunff’s Tiny Experiments is a better way to approach ambition. Now, I do things to see how far I can push. I commit to a certain training regime to learn what works and what doesn’t.

Do what you can’t.