This post is dedicated to me. I listened to my podcast episode recently, and I learnt that sometimes, I should listen to myself. I don’t need to chase some all-knowing individual. Actually, that’s a misnomer because everyone is figuring it out on the go!

About 5 years ago, I wanted to make a career in music. I wanted to be a metal guitarist and be a rock star. The wet dream of a teenager! Turns out, I still imagine myself being on stage and look cool. Except, I know a bit about what it takes to be a rock star. The path to be a rock star is not as I imagined it to be. I did not want the pressure of making money through music. I believe that the best works of art are those that are done for their own sake. Not meant to please anyone but myself.


I am convinced that I need to do find something else that would generate wealth:

I am best suited to solve a problem - by a combination of skills I possess.

People care about the problem enough to willingly pay for it.

I care about the problem.

I am having fun doing it.

In the past 3 years, I became serious about health and wellness. My personal transformation journey is a big milestone that made me want to go deeper into this field. I started creating content on my personal fitness journey and that continues to inspire many people.

This led me to accidentally starting my coaching program last summer. I say “accidentally” because I was not really planning on starting it. A few people encouraged me to start a coaching program and I signed up to do the certifications. Like many things, there is no right time to start.

We are never ready to take a plunge.

An ex-colleague of mine approached me to coach her. That was the trigger point to start my coaching program.

Over the past few months, I learnt the following aspect about running a business or a startup - It is important to choose the clients. It is not fun when I am working with people who are not aligned with my philosophy.

The second thing that I learnt from coaching is that it is not innovative and not scalable. Therefore, it is not a startup.

So why a startup?
A way to generate wealth. To be able to have enough resources at my disposal to do what I love.

To have control over my time.

To be able to have a say in causes that matter to me.

I was listening to an episode of Charlie Munger by David Senra.

Charlie Munger said -

Wealth is a means to be of service to the people.

That pretty much summarizes why I want to build a startup.

Writing about my philosophy and my learnings helps me meet the kind of people who are aligned with me so that I can create value with them.